=head1 NAME

Perlbal::Manual - Guide and reference manual for Perlbal


=head2 VERSION

Perlbal 1.78.


=head2 DESCRIPTION

This is the comprehensive guide and reference manual for Perlbal.


=over 4

=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Configuration>

How to configure Perlbal: pools, services, syntax and more.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Contributing>

How to contribute to Perlbal.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Credits>

Author and contributor credits for Perlbal.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Debugging>

How Perlbal's Debugging system works.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::FailOver>

How Perlbal's Fail Over mechanism works.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::HighPriority>

Perlbal's high/low priority queueing system and how to use it.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Hooks>

Existing hooks and how they work.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Install>

Installation procedures for Perlbal.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Internals>

Perlbal's architecture at a glance. Useful for developers.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::LoadBalancer>

Setting up a Perlbal Load Balancing service.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Logging>

How Perlbal's Logging system works.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Management>

Setting up a C<management> service, connecting to that service and managing Perlbal on-the-fly.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Plugins>

Known plugins and how to create new ones.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::ReverseProxy>

Setting up a Perlbal C<reverse_proxy> service.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Roles>

Brief description of existing roles.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::Selector>

Setting up a Perlbal C<selector> service.


=item L<Perlbal::Manual::WebServer>

Setting up a Perlbal C<web_server> service.


=back

=head1 AUTHORS

Bruno Martins and José Castro.


=head2 SEE ALSO

L<Perlbal::FAQ>.

There are sample configuration files under F<conf/>, including samples for using and configuring existing plugins.
